# Reading Notes Class 12

This reading covers the canvas html element as well as Chart.js, a popular charting library that allows developers to bring in customizable charts into Javascript.

## Javascript Canvas

- What does the \<canvas> allow a developer to achieve?

> The canvas element allows you to draw 2d graphics using javascript.

- What is the importance of closing the canvas tag?

> Any content between the opening and closing tags is fallback content that will display if the browser doesn't support the canvas element.

- Explain what the getContext() method does.

> getContext() is a method that returns a render context object.

## Chart.js Documentation

- What is Chart.js and how can it be brought into your project?

> Chart.js is a charting library for javascript and allows developers to bring in many different kinds of charts and customization options.  You can import the library into a project file.

- List 3 different Chart types you can create using Chart.js

> Bar charts, Line Charts, Bubble Charts.

## Easily Create Stunning Animated Charts with Chart.JS

- What are some advantages to displaying data via a chart over a table?

> They allow us to present information visually to tell a story with data as opposed to in a static table.  They allow for all kinds of customization that can improve the user experience.

- How could Chart.js aid your previously created applications visually?

> I used chart.js to show a line chart of sales by store on the salmon cookies project which helped provide visual interest to the sales page.

## Things I want to know more about

- How does importing chart.js impact page performance and page load times.