# Class 10 Reading Notes

This reading covers troubleshooting methods within JavaScript as well as how to use the Javascript debugger.

## What Went Wrong? Troubleshooting JavaScript

- Name some key differences between a syntax error and a logic error.

> Syntax errors are spelling errors in the code which cause it to not work.  Logic errors are when the syntax is correct, but there is some unintended result of the code.  These are harder to fix than syntax errors because the code will actually run and it can be hard to identify where your result is going awry.

- List a few types of errors that you have encountered in past lab assignments and explain how you were able to correct them.

> I encountered some errors in a previous lab where the expected result of a loop was not what I expected it to be.  In order to correct it, I added a console log within the loop and was able to check my variable values at each iteration.  I found that I was not ending my loop after the intende number of iterations so I just needed to fix the parameters in the for loop in order for it to run correctly.
> I often additionally make syntax errors.  Luckily, VSCode catches most of these and before I run code I check all of the built in error messages.

- How will this topic continue to influence your long term goals?

> As part of my longterm goals to write clean effective code, I will need to improve my troubleshooting ability.  I find that encountering these errors through practice is actually one of the best ways to learn what is happening under the hood and improve my code going forward.

## The JavaScript Debugger

- How would you describe the JavaScript Debugger tool and how it works to someone just starting out in software development?

> The debugger allows us to watch the value of the variables in our code as it is executing to make sure our logic is sound.  It allows us to pause code, run through steps, and try and identify where things are going awry if the code is not working.

- Define what a breakpoint is.

> A breakpoint is a point where we want to pause execution.  This will allow us to inspect things at midway points in our code to ensure it is running the way we want it to.

- What is the call stack?

> The call stack shows what code was executed to get to the current line.

## Things I want to know more about

- Are there debugging tools that we can operate inside of VScode as opposed to in a browser console.