# Class 14 Reading Notes

These readings cover transforms, animations, and transitions in CSS that can add engaging features to any website.

## CSS Transforms

- What does a CSS transform allow the developer to do to an element?

> Transforms allow the developer to size, position, and change elements in unique ways.

- Provide an example of a transform and how you could see that being used on a website.

> The 2D skew transform can distort elements on an axis.  This could be useful on a text logo to give it a bit of a stretched look and give some visual interest to otherwise blocky lettering.

## CSS Transitions & Animations

- What does a CSS transition allow the developer to do to an element?

> Transitions can alter the appearance and behavior of an element whenever a state change occurs.

- How does a CSS animation differ from a CSS transition?

> Animations allow the appearance and behavior of an element to be altered in multiple keyframes.  Animations can have multiple points of transition.

## 8 Simple CSS3 Transitions That Will Wow Your Users

- What are some benefits to using CSS transitions on websites?

> Transition effects can excite users, increase engagement, and increase conversions on a website.

- How does this topic fit in with your long-term goals?

> Adding these to my tools would allow me to create more engaging websites which is an important aspect of good design.

## Things I want to know more about

- Can transforms be set to happen as a class property change when another event happens?