# Class 27 Reading Notes

These reading notes are important because they show us shared preferences which allows us to pass small bits of data between activities in Android.  It also introduces espresso testing which is how we will do testing in our Android applications.  It also introduces the concept of the back stack which is important for how Android applications work.

## More Android Basics

- What is a technology you’ve used before that is similar to Shared Preferences?

> One technology that I have used before that is similar is local storage in web development.  Local storage also allowed us to store key value pairs and reference them between pages within one session.

- Why is testing important? Give at least 4 reasons, and explain which is the most important to you and why.

> Testing could be important to prevent bugs, ensure reliability, meet user expectations, and to optimize performance. To me, the most iportant reason is to ensure reliability. Unstable applications are one of the fastest ways to lose user trust and make a project unsuccessful.

- Create an analogy for Tasks and the back stack. Have we used a similar system before? Explain.

> An analogy for tasks and the back stack is plates in a cafeteria.  For example, in an email app, when a user clicks on one of their emails, it will open a new activity and put it on top of the back stack.  When the user is done with that button they will click the back button and the specific email will be pulled off the back stack.  This is like the top tray being pulled off of the stack of cafeteria trays and exposing the one that was underneath.  This stack operates just like the way our stack datastructure operates when we have been examining it in general Java implementation.
