# Class 13 Reading Notes

These readings cover one to many relationships and integration testing in Spring MVC.  These readings are important because it is our introduction to relational databases and why SQL is useful.  Additionally, integration testing will allow us to test larger parts of our applications as opposed to just isolated components in unit testing.

## Related Data in Spring

- Name a few real life examples of “One To Many” relatioships.

> In a classroom, a teacher to their students is a one to many relationship.  An author and the books they have written is a one to many relationship.  A company to its employees is also a one to many relationship.

- Given two entities, one named Player and one named Team, if you wanted to create a one to many relationship with those entities which would be the one and which would be the many?

> The team would be the one and players would be the many.

- Explain one to many relationships to a non-technical friend.

> I would probably use the team analogy and talk about how in professional soccer, a team can have many players, but each player can only be on one team.  Therefore the relationship between them is one to many.

## Baeldung: Spring Integration Testing

- Describe the difference between a unit test and an integration test.

> A unit test is focused on individual units or components of software.  They are fast to execute and provide quick feedback.  An integration test is for the interaction between multiple components or modules of a system.  They are slower to execute as they require running a larger part of the application.

- What is the object that provides support for Spring MVC Testing?

> The object that provides support for Spring MVC testing is the MockMvc object.

- What does the “perform()” method do in a Spring integration test?

> The perform() method is used to perform an HTTP request to the Spring MVC application.  It returns a ResultActions object that allows the developer to create assertions on the HTTP response.
