# Class 14 Reading Notes

These reading notes are important because they introduce the concepts of password security and authorization and why it can be challenging for server side databases to manage.

## Intro to Password Hashing

- Define the term “hashing”.

> Hashing is chopping something into small pieces making it unrecognizable compared to the original.  In computing this means that data that is hashed cannot be practically unhashed.

- Explain to a non-technical friend what a hash function does to a password.

> A hash function turns a password into a jumbled mess that is unrecognizable when compared to your original password.  These functions always produce the same output when you put in your password, but they are functionally impossible to reverse engineer if somebody were to steal your hashed password from a database.

## bcrypt Overview

- What does it mean to ‘salt’ a password?

> Salting a password means adding a unique and random string of characters to the password before hashing it.

- What piece of information would a hacker need to access in order to find the ‘salt’ string for your passwords?

> The hacker would need to access the system's source code or the database where the salts are stored.

## jbCrypt

- How does the Blowfish block cipher handle the increased computation speed of new computers?

> The blowfish block cypher handles the increased computation speed of new computers by allowing the computation cost of the algorithm to be parametized.  This makes it more time intensive for attackers to perform large-scale password cracking attacks.

- What are the issue with the two most commong password hashes for Java (“Java password hash” and “Java password encryption”)?

> They use an unsalted hash which allows for reverse dictionary lookup of passwords.