# Class 10 Reading Notes

These readings cover the basics of using Spring for backend applications. These readings are important because Spring will allow us to create full stack applications while utilizing Java.

## Spring App Basics

- What role do the @Controller classes play in a Spring MVC application?

> Controller classes handle HTTP requests and are responsible for processing user interactions.

- Explain to a non-technical friend what a GET request is.

> A GET request is when your browser sends a simple request to a server asking for some information.  The server then responds with some information and your browser renders it so you can interact with it.

- What annotation should be placed on your Spring Boot application class?

> The annotation that should be placed on the Spring Boot application class is `@SpringBootApplication`


## Spring MVC and ThymeLeaf

- What method allows for a variable defined in Java (in your Spring Controller) to be dispalyed in HTML with the help of Thymeleaf?

> To display a variable defined in a Spring Controller in HTML using Thymeleaf, you can use the `${variableName}` syntax.

- Explain the role of a @Controller class in a Spring MVC application.

> Controller classes handle HTTP requests and are responsible for processing user interactions.

- What is a model attribute refered to in Thymeleaf?

> In Thymeleaf, a model attribute is referred to as a "context variable." Context variables are pieces of data that are added to the model in a Spring MVC application and are made available to the Thymeleaf template during the template rendering process.

## Things I want to know more about

- What are the advantages and disadvantages of Spring as compared to Node.JS
