# Class 12 Reading Notes

These readings cover accessing data with spring data repositories.  This will simplify the data access layer in a spring application.

## Accessing Data With JPA

- How are query methods defined when using Spring Data JPA?

> Query methods are defined by declaring method signatures in a repository interface that extends one of the Spring Data repository interfaces.  By following the naming convention of the method, Spring Data JPA automatically generates the query based on the method name.

- Which dependencies will you need in order to complete the Spring guide?

> Spring Boot, Spring Data JPA, H2 Database

- What annotations are used to specify an auto generated identification number for an Entity?

> `@ID` , `@GeneratedValue`, `@GenerationType.AUTO`

## Baeldung: Comparing Repositiories

- Which of the Spring Data Repositories covered in the readings has the most methods available to it?

> JPA repository has the most methods available to it.

- Name a downstide of a Spring Data Repository.

> One downside is that it couples the code to the specific library and its abstractions.

- How would you define an operation to find a student based on their name in a repo named StudentRepository which extends JpaRepository?

> `public interface StudentRepository extends JpaRepository<Student, Long> {
    Student findByName(String name);
}
`

## Things I want to know more about

How does Spring Data repositories provide flexibility to create custom queries if needed?
