# Class 15 Reading Notes

These readings introducte OAuth and how it is used to securely transmit authorization between different resources.

## What is OAuth

- What is OAuth?

> OAuth is a single sign on solution that allows users to log in once and not have to put in access credentials for every individual resource they access.  It is an open-standard authorization protocol.

- Give an example of what using OAuth would look like.

> If I was in one Hooli app and I had already authenticated myself, I could then click a link to another related service and I would be automatically authenticated.

- How does OAuth work? What are the steps that it takes to authenticate the user?

> The first site connects to the second on behalf of the user.  The second site generates a token and secret unique to the transaction.  The first site gives the token and secret to the user's client software.  The user is asked to approve the autorization transaction.  The user is given an approved access token.  The user gives the approved acces token to the the first website.  The first website gives the access token to the second website.  The second website lets the first website access their site on behalf of the user.  The user sees a successful transaction occurring.

- What is OpenID?

> OpenID provides authentication as opposed to authorization and allows users to perform authenticated activities on secondary websites.

## Authorization and Authentication Flows

- What is the difference between authorization and authentication?

> Authentication is verifying the identity of the user wheras authorization is the process of granting or denying access to specific resources or functionalities.

- What is Authorization Code Flow?

> Authorization code flow is the client redirects the user to the authorization server, the user authenticates with the autorization server, the authorization server validates the credentials and prompts the user to grant permissions, the authorization server generates an authorization code and redirects the user back to the client application, the client application exchanges the authorization code for an access token, the client can then use the access token to make authorized requests to protected resources.

- What is Authorization Code Flow with Proof Key for Code Exchange (PKCE)?

> It is an enhanced version of the authorization code flow with additional steps designed for mobile and native apps.

- What is Implicit Flow with Form Post?

> The implicit flow with form post is intended for public clients where the client application can not securely store client secrets.

- What is Client Credentials Flow?

> Client credentials flow is a flow designed for machine to machine applications.

- What is Device Authorization Flow?

> Device authorization flow is designed for input-constrained devices like smart TV's.

- What is Resource Owner Password Flow?

> Resource owner password flow is where the client application directly requests the user's credentials (username and password).  The client app then exchanges these credentials for an access token.

## Things I Want to Know More About

- How does OAuth differ from Auth0.  Is Auth0 the company behind OAuth?