# Class 14 Reading Notes

These readings cover diversity and inclusion in the workplace.  This is important because diversity is a critical component to a successful team.

## That Time When Women Stopped Coding

- What occurred during the same time as the beginning of the decline of women in computer science?

> The beginning of the decline of women in computer science coincided with when personal computers started showing up in US homes in significant numbers.

- Why does it matter that males had been playing on computers growing up?

> It matters because at university a certain level of experience is assumed at entry as opposed to before when professors would assume that students had no experience.  This leads to people who don't have any experience being discouraged because they feel as if they are behind.

## Why Diversity Matters To Your Tech Company

- When are diversity efforts most successful?

> They are most successful when driven by a commitment from company leaders.

- Why do diverse companies perform better?

> Diverse teams are smarter and more creative.  Different perspectives can lead to novel solutions to problems.

- Give an example of how a diverse company can serve a diverse user base or vise-versa.

> A diverse company will better address the needs of a diverse user base because the team members building the applications will understand the diverse people that will ultimately use the product.  One example is youtubes ios app being bad for left handers because the development and testing teams were right handed.

## Things I Want to Know More About

- How has the pandemic affected trends in DEI in the tech industry.