# Class 11 Reading Notes

These readings cover the differences between sql and nosql databases.  This is important for picking the right type of database depending on the type of application.

## nosql vs sql

- Fill in the chart below with five differences between SQL and NoSQL databases:

| SQL      | noSQL |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| Relational     | non-relational      |
| Predefined Data Schemas   | Dynamic Schema       |
| Vertically scalable   | Horizontally Scalable       |
| Structured querly language   | unstructure query language      |
| MySQL, Oracle, SQlite   | MongoDB Redis BigTable       |

- What kind of data is a good fit for an SQL database?

> Data requiring complex queries.  Tabular data.  Transactional data.

- Give a real world example.

> ERP transactional records requiring a relational data model.

- What kind of data is a good fit a NoSQL database?

> Hierarchical data storage.  Large data (i.e. big data)

- Give a real world example.

> Database of a large social media platform.

- Which type of database is best for hierarchical data storage?

> NoSQL database.

- Which type of database is best for scalability?

> SQL databases are best for vertical scalability while noSQL is horizontally scalable.

## Video

- What does SQL stand for?

> Structured Query Language

- What is a relational database?

> Relational databases have tables with keys on the rows which relate to other tables allowing for structured queries like joins.

- What type of structure does a relational database work with?

> A relational database works with table structures.

- What is a ‘schema’?

> The fields that make up the columns of the tables in a structured database.

- What is a NoSQL database?

> A noSQL database is an unstructured database where data can be stored with flexible schemas in the same collection.

- How does it work?

> Inside of a database, there are collections, that contain documents which look like JSONS.  They don't have to have the same schema.  There is no set schema for the database.  There are no relations between databases.

- What is inside of a MongoDB database?

> Collections, documents, fields, indexes, and metadata.

- Which is more flexible - SQL or MongoDB? and why.

> MongoDb is more flexible because it doesn't have a fixed schema.

- What is the disadvantage of a NoSQL database?

> Not having a predictable schema can be a disadvantage because you can't rely on a record to have certain fields.  Additionally, there are no relations and you have a lot of write requests.

## Things I want to know more about

- What are more real word examples of common usages of each type of database.